---
layout: blog_post
title: Vehicle Display Project Log - 1
category: blog
---

I have been driving a 4th gen Toyota RAV4 for a few years. It is a rock solid car without any issues, and it is so simple that I am able to take care of all of the maintanence and fixes necessary to keep it in tip-top condition, without needing to go to a mechanic. But the legendary reliability partially comes from the fact that it barely has any electronics that many of the modern counterparts now come equipped by standard. One feature I miss in particular is a standalone Android Auto display that can ideally connect to my phone wirelessly. Here is my solution space I considered:

* **Buy a newer car that has said Android Auto display feature** - This means spending an addition $10k minimum plus taxes with trading in the car, and potentially losing peace-of-mind from my current low-cost-to-run, reliable vehicle. Newer vehicles have much more integrated electronics systems, tighter engine bay layouts, and less proven drivetrains. Given that there are no safety issues with my current car (Toyota even reinforced the passenger footwell of 2014 models and newer to do better in small-overlap crash), I thought this was the least economical and logical solution to fix my issue of getting a display.
* **Buy an off-the-shelf aftermarket radio headunit display** - Looking into what this entails, I realized it is quite a lot of labor removing the existing radio from the dash, disconnecting the harnesses, and re-assembling it back together with the new aftermarket display. There is risk in damaging the original harness, and this would at least be a weekend-long job. Plus, quality aftermarket parts are not cheap, even the lower end ones run at least $3-400. Though this would be the easiest option in terms of software readiness - I would not need to engineer things to make it work. But what I see is what I get, the software running on displays like Kenwood and Pioneer is normally proprietary, and I don't get to change beyond what the manufacturer deems user worthy.
* **Buy an off-the-shelf dash display** - There are cheaper solutions that do less than replacing the headunit completely, and essentially just runs Android Auto, and some even work with Apple Carplay as well. They range between $1-200 online, and are mostly design to mount on top of the dash or from the windshield. The pros are that this address my problem in the most cost efficient way, and there are some guarantees for being a functional product. The cons are, the mounting methods are janky at best, and do not integrate well into the dash. Also many of these displays don't look confidence inspiring in terms of reliability, automotive shock and vibe plus temperature can really take a toll on electronics.
* **Make my own display running open source software** - Research on this topic brought up some interesting open source projects. One in particular - Crankshaft, is based on the Openauto project, and runs on raspberry pi. It is not as popular as I would have liked, with its last release in 2022, but it claimed to support Raspberry Pi 4. This would involve engineering on my end - finding an compatible display integrated with raspberry pi, that would survive in an automotive environment, and designing the mechanicals to integrate into the dash. Some other tasks: finding a spot on the dash that ideally requires no permanent modifications; figure out how to deliver power to assembly. The pros are that it solves the cons of all options above, with the con being my engineering time, if said hardware exists.

As you might be able to tell, I leaned towards making my own display because it would be a fun mechatronics project, but not before doing some conceptual prototype tests and doing some component research. I put together this display quickly using some parts I had on hand:

Unfortunately it was too large to fit anywhere on the dash, so I had to mount it from the windshield, obstructing my hood visibility slightly.

I successfully got it to run <a href="https://github.com/opencardev/crankshaft/releases/tag/csng-alpha7.5" style="color: #a83232" target="_blank">Crankshaft NG alpha-7.5 2022-06-29</a>, the latest release v2022.09.12.1 at the time encountered unknown errors after bootup. 