---
layout: default
title: BIGXY 3D PRINTER
category: portfolio
modal-id: 18
vid1: <div class="video-container"> <iframe class="video" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Rj0XkIeNbQE" allowfullscreen></iframe> </div>
vid2: null
img: Big_XY/bigxyrend1.jpg	
img2: Big_XY/IMG_1611.jpg 
img3: Big_XY/IMG_1795.jpg 
img4: Big_XY/bigxyrend2.jpg 
img5: Big_XY/e3d.jpg 
project-date: 2016-2020
languages:
- C/C++
concepts:
- 3D Printing
- Mechatronics Design
- Manufacturing
- Wire Harness Design
tools:
- Autodesk Inventor
- Manual Lathe and Mill
- Tig Welder
---

### Project Description

<a href="https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1869688" style="color: #a83232" target="_blank">Thingiverse Link</a>

<a href="img/portfolio/Big_XY/Bigxy.pdf" style="color: #a83232" target="_blank">Component Drawings</a>

One of the crazier ideas of mine, I decided to create the printer that is designed to print printers. Project began in freshman year of college as I was extremely bored by school, and finished in that summer. With a build volume of 470x510x510mm and full metal frame and extruder, BigXY can run all filaments on the market, while achieving good production accuracy. Dual ballscrew Z axis to support the heated glass build plate, and a beefy Nema 21 stepper to drive it. Linear rail X and Y axis, powered by 2 60mm Nema 17's running CoreXY mechanism with a direct drive E3D style extruder. The XY belt is stainless reinforced polyurethane to minimize stretch. Involved a lot of machining and a decent amount of welding to build, but only costed around $700 including electronics.

### Challenges and Accomplishments

There were many challenges in this project. First, I had to design the entire printer, easily the biggest CAD assemblies I have put together from scratch at that time, and quite complex given the intricate Core XY kinematics. In addition, all of the wiring and electronics are custom made, and I had to customized the Marlin firmware to work with a Core XY architecture of this size. Then, many challenges were encountered during manufacturing. I did almost everything manually in Cornell's machine shop over 2 weeks. The most difficult part of all were the ball screws. Being case hardened and of an irregular geometry, I had to first make a collar adapter in order to hold the ball screw inside the lathe. Then, going through the case hardened layer was very tough, and required a few days of machining time with lots of sparks and cutting fluid. I even had to weld together a motor mount for the Z axis stepper, as it needed a custom attachment geometry. The result of about a month's work was a monstrous printer that has served me well throughout my college career of 4 years with minimal issues, and has even helped save lives during the 2020 corona virus pandemic by printing 146 face shield brackets in about a month's time. Sadly it was disassembled when I moved for my first job, but it will be resurrected soon with updated Z stage.