---
layout: default
title: PARALLELIZED FPGA MANDELBROT
category: portfolio
modal-id: 6
vid1: null
vid2: null
img: FPGA/render5.jpg
img2: FPGA/mandel1.gif 
img3: FPGA/mandel2.gif 
img4: FPGA/render4.jpg 
img5: FPGA/solver_archi.jpg
project-date: 2019
languages:
- Verilog
- C++
concepts:
- Parallel Computing
- Mandelbrot Set
- Graphics Processing
- Pipeline Design
tools:
- Intel Altera
- Linux
---

### Project Description

This is a completely custom implementation of the Mandelbrot Set visualization with interactive user zoom/pan using a mouse, on the Intel/Altera DE1-SoC Cyclone V FPGA board for VGA output on a 640x480 monitor. It incoporates medium-grained parallelization by dividing the screen into discrete tasks for each Mandelbrot solver, which speeds up the solution significantly. The final frequency that we could run the whole design was 75 Mhz, utilizing 100% of the FPGA resources. See data below for acceleration results. This was compared against dynamic parallelism using an ad hoc dispatching algorithm, and we found that the static task dispatching worked better because the dynamic dispatching's calculation overhead outweighed the small amount of extra speed-up due to better parallel utilization. It is also worth mentioning that we used 4.23 fixed point for all imaginary calculations.

We compiled various .sof files that can be directly loaded into the DE1-SoC's FPGA with varying amount of parallelism, which are located in the upper most FPGA design directory in my Github repo.

The number of iterations for the Mandelbrot algorithm can be dynamically selected in system runtime with the DE1-SoC's 10 switches, which represent the binary encoding for that number, range 0 to 1024. The color scheme is a custom implemented version of Altera's VGA Subsystem University Graphics IP, which resulted in a high constrast and detailed visualization that emphasizes the red tone.

### Challenges and Accomplishments

This was a large FPGA project that utilized almost the entirety of the DE1-SoC's resources. It took a few weeks of Verilog design and optimization, as well as testing to arrive at the final product. Although this is far from the cutting edge of technology, it gave me a much deeper understanding of GPU mechanisms and design, as well as parallel computation in general.