---
layout: default
title: INSECT ROBOT HYBRID MANUFACTURING RESEARCH
category: portfolio
modal-id: 25
vid1: null
vid2: null
img: Ant_Robot/robot_profile.png
img2: Ant_Robot/labeledrobot.png
img3: Ant_Robot/setups.png
img4: Ant_Robot/results.png
img5: Ant_Robot/Test_Results.jpg
alt: 
client: null
project-date: 2020-2021
languages:
- Python
concepts:
- Scientific Research
- Bio-hybrid Manufacturing
- Robotics
tools:
- LaTex
- VS Code
---

### Project Description

This was a research project done on the novel idea of ant-robot hybrid manufacturing, as a part of a four-person team affiliated with the <a href="https://cei.ece.cornell.edu/2020/08/19/acadia-2020/" style="color: #a83232" target="_blank">Cornell Collective Embodied Intelligence Lab</a>. I was the third author of the <a href="img/portfolio/Ant_Robot/acadia20_310.pdf" style="color: #a83232" target="_blank">paper published in ACADIA 2020</a>.

### Challenges and Accomplishments

Using a robotically controlled UV light (350–405 nm) as an environmental stimulus to bias digging behavior, we guide 600 ants to dig ~141 cm of tunnels in transparent ant gel over 646 hours. Predictability, fidelity to the UV source, repeatability, dig efficiency, amount of ant activity, and tunnel preference were studied. The resulting branching tunnels were cast in silicone to demonstrate the ability to harness this in subtractive fabrication with inexpensive, self-main- taining biological fabricators.

Results showed that ants can follow the UV light as a path guide (when the light is moving) or target it as a goal (when the light is both moving and static), with longer digging effect from the moving UV stimulus. Ants showed high fidelity to the light path, aligning their tunnel direction exactly with changes in the UV position, tuning the fabrication in real-time with environmental alterations. Population size did not seem to affect digging speed or efficiency, and the ants’ preexisting preferences factored into which tunnels were dug out.

The research develops a hybrid biodigital way of working with biological swarms where the individual agency and the intrinsic stochasticity of the system offer possibilities in real-time adaptability and programmability through environmental templating.

In addition to research and working on the paper, I designed and developed most of the custom hardware and software for this project, including the robot arm and UV light system. We also presented this project at the <a href="https://2020.acadia.org/" style="color: #a83232" target="_blank">ACADIA 2020 conference</a>.