---
layout: default
title: HIGH VOLTAGE DC/DC CONVERTER
category: portfolio
modal-id: 9
vid1: null
vid2: null
img: DCDC/Render.jpg
img2: DCDC/renderings.jpg
img3: DCDC/layout.jpg
img4: DCDC/All-page-002.jpg
img5: DCDC/PDFtoJPG.me-1.jpg
project-date: 2018-2019
languages:
- Embedded C
concepts:
- Power Electronics
- GaN Transistors
- PCBA Integration
- Electrical System Design
tools:
- Altium Designer
- Autodesk Inventor
---

### Project Description

<a href="img/portfolio/DCDC/All.pdf" style="color: #a83232" target="_blank">Schematics</a>

This was my senior design project, done with the help of <a href="http://afridi.ece.cornell.edu/" style="color: #a83232" target="_blank">Professor Khurram Afridi</a> to implement a novel variation of the Dual Active Bridge topology (stacked inverter, paralleled rectifier stage) in combination with all GaN FETs to achieve reliability and ultra high efficiency. The goal was to use this for the Formula SAE electric car. Some specifications:

• 1000VDC galvanic isolation between high voltage input and low voltage output

• 280-410VDC wide input range (for this year’s racecar, but designed with 600VDC operation in mind for future years)

• 12VDC output, 400W max, projected efficiency >93% down to 10% load

• Designed to meet IP67 ingress protection rating

• Self contained module with PCB planar transformer and STM32F407 microcontroller daughter boards

• CANBUS communication with vehicle controller

### Challenges and Accomplishments

This was one of the most complex PCB assembly projects I have done, and almost all of the research and work was done by just myself. Even though I was familiar with power electronics applications, I was not proficient to the level required to implement a novel architecture from scratch. Therefore I enlisted the help of Professor Afridi, who specializes in power electronics at Cornell. Even then, it required a semester worth of research and learning, much of it coming from past papers from Professor Afridi. The final design was an 6/8 layer configurable PCB, with two daughter boards for the controller and planar transformer. Two revisions of the board were done, and taken to the manufacturing stage with quoting. However, the team and I decided to stop the project there, due to budgetary and design maturity reasons.